Twenty-twenty was a year
of unprecedented change.
The coronavirus pandemic
has taken a grim toll around the world.
In some parts of the world,
the coronavirus is . . .
beginning to spread more quickly.
This global pandemic has thrown the world
into a state of uncertainty.
On a global scale, it was unlike anything
Jehovah’s people
had yet experienced in the 21st century.
Everyday life for many of us
has been disrupted in ways
we might never have imagined.
We’ve made dramatic adjustments
to our activities all over the world.
Learn how to use new apps like Skype®
and Zoom—what’s that?
It changed how we attended meetings,
engaged in the ministry,
and visited with friends.
For some of us,
this may have been
the very first time we ever held
a Memorial in our home.
And although attending in smaller groups
may have been even closer
to how the Memorial
was observed in earlier times,
for most modern-day servants of Jehovah,
this was likely a unique experience.
Then, during the summer,
we enjoyed a full convention program,
with talks delivered directly
from Governing Body members
and their helpers,
and in most cases,
again, streamed right into our homes.
Yes, despite the various challenges
and difficulties experienced in 2020,
Jehovah’s organization continued undaunted
providing the right food at the right time.
But why was this convention
unlike any other
in our organization’s history?
What were the challenges?
And most important,
what have been the benefits?
On March 11, 2020,
the World Health Organization
made the assessment
that COVID-19 could be characterized
as a pandemic.
At that point, we had no idea
as to what governments
were going to do worldwide.
Would they allow our brothers
to meet in Kingdom Halls?
to meet in larger venues?
We had no idea whatsoever.
The Governing Body
approved a letter to all branches
canceling all live conventions worldwide.
And the idea was
for us to prerecord a program
that could be used in any location
around the world
so that they would at least have
the program of the regional convention.
We wanted to ensure
that this spiritual food got out there
to all of our dear brothers and sisters.
More important,
we wanted to make certain
that this program went forward,
because it honors Jehovah.
He’s the Source of the joy that we have.
So, very quickly, speakers were
each assigned two convention parts.
They had to prepare them,
and it was scheduled to have all these talks
recorded during the last two weeks of April.
Giving a talk at an open arena
or at a large event,
you have the opportunity of getting
feedback from the audience.
If you say something
that impresses the audience
or makes them happy,
seeing the smiling faces there,
somehow that really stirs up our presentation
and helps us to make it
more lively and meaningful.
But being in the basement
of the office building,
looking at a camera
with nobody else in the room,
knowing that it’s just a couple of persons
recording it in another room certainly is
a very different way to present a talk.
And Jehovah has allowed us
to endure this time of pandemic,
but he also had to know
—and we’re convinced he knew—
that we could still make
this “Always Rejoice”! program happen
because we would use the tools
available to us, and he would help us.
And that’s exactly what we did.
Next, let’s take a closer look
at some additional challenges faced
once the talks were recorded.
We had the opportunity to hear
from some of the departments involved.
Brothers,
how did the team adapt to the challenges?
Well, the reaction, initially,
was that we were very excited.
We love to try new things,
and this was a huge opportunity
to do just that.
But then as we had more meetings about it,
we found out what was going to be involved.
We suddenly got very nervous
because we found out
about all the translation
and how soon everything had to be finished.
What impact did that have?
Audio/Video Services had never produced
an online program of this size before.
You’re talking
an 18-hour online regional convention
that had to be produced
in a very short time.
Most years,
we just translate the outlines,
which are relatively easy,
and then we translate
all the convention videos and dramas.
But this year,
the translators not only had to do
that work of translating the videos
but they had to translate
the scripts for each talk and then arrange
for recording all of those talks.
It was a tremendous amount of work.
Some of us were saying:
“Can we postpone it?
“Can we ask
“to write back and say,
‘Brothers, please, can we do it later?’”
because we just thought
it was impossible to do.
The government in India
had announced a complete lockdown,
so overnight
we were without our offices,
our computer equipment,
our recording studios,
the level of connectivity we enjoyed.
We felt like a carpenter
who’s asked to produce furniture
but has no access
to his toolbox or his workshop.
That is a lot to contend with.
What are some unique solutions
that the teams came up with
to meet those various challenges?
Well, there were amazing solutions.
One of the things that impressed me
was the recording studios that were made.
Normally the translators go into the RTO
or the branch to do the recording,
but now they had to make
hundreds of makeshift studios in their homes.
How would translators accomplish the work
outside the branch
with the power coming in and out?
Well, the brothers would wait,
and as soon as the power came,
they would start working,
no matter what time it was in the day.
Our brothers are so dedicated
that they accomplished the work.
Very touching.
Our brothers who do sign language recordings
had to record
in front of a camera,
but they also ideally needed
to have a background behind them
that was bright green or bright blue
so that their signing could be superimposed
onto another video.
And so some brothers
were able to get a cloth.
Many of our brothers
painted a wall in their house
this bright chartreuse color.
Admirable ingenuity—thank you.
One of the most interesting solutions
was that many of the translators
around the world
in different branches would go
into their car late at night
when all the noise had subsided
in the neighborhood,
and they would do the recording
inside the car.
Thank you and everyone working with you
for being so willing to adapt.
In your opinion,
what made all of this possible?
Despite a global pandemic,
despite a lockdown
—none of those things
mattered to Jehovah’s organization.
What has shut down various other things
throughout the world
proved to be no obstacle for Jehovah
and his earthly organization.
And what a beautiful thing it is
to see this program be something
that’s enjoyed by everyone worldwide!
Here, despite the conditions
going on in the world around us,
Jehovah’s people are moving forward.
And you really see
the fulfillment of Malachi 3:18,
where it says
that ‘you will see a distinction
between those serving Jehovah
and those who don’t.’
Everyone who had a part in this
—the thousands of brothers
and sisters around the world
who had a part in bringing
these convention programs
to our brothers and sisters—
they’re just normal people
like you and me,
but Jehovah uses normal people
to accomplish incredible things.
This convention
has been a landmark convention
because of the content
and the beautiful theme,
but we’ll also remember it
for the way Jehovah helped us
to produce it in so many languages
for our brothers and sisters
in the country and around the world.
Well, in translation, we like verbs,
and in Jehovah’s name, there’s a verb:
“He Causes to Become.”
This 2020 convention was proof
that Jehovah causes whatever he wants
to become to accomplish his purpose,
because if there’s a convention
that Jehovah used
to give glory to his name, this is it.
What beautiful conviction!
Thank you, brothers.
Yes, Jehovah’s spirit helped ensure
that the work was accomplished
in spite of many challenges,
but what were some of the blessings
experienced once the work was done?
Because the convention
is being presented by means of video,
it’s possible to pause
at any time when necessary
just to go back a little bit
to watch something
that maybe we didn’t quite get.
And maybe even because sometimes
our minds drift,
it’s good,
because we can go back and rewatch it.
And in this way,
we get even more benefit from the program.
I cannot imagine
a convention more international
than this one.
We saw how the brothers were able
to make a difficult situation turn out well
—that is, we’re together,
even if we’re physically apart
from each other.
We are united at this convention.
Volunteers were sent by the elders to travel
and obtain the videos
due to lack of Internet in our village.
We traveled about 46 kilometers on foot.
Sometimes we would leave early in the morning
or late in the evening,
even traveling at night
in order to obtain the videos.
But with Jehovah’s blessing,
we overcame
all of these challenges.
I lost my dearest wife
about two months
before the convention started.
It was cancer.
We had been married for 14 years,
and she was only 47.
She was my greatest partner
in Jehovah’s service,
so this left me with a gaping hole.
The theme of the convention,
“Always Rejoice”!
came just at the right time for me.
I know it was Jehovah’s wonderful gift to me.
Throughout the convention,
I could see that Jehovah had sent
all the members of the Governing Body
and its helpers to me personally.
I can’t think of a better gift.
I really enjoyed the audio descriptions
because I am someone who is legally blind,
and the audio descriptions
just opened up a whole new world for me.
Ben walks out of the room
as his coworkers shake their heads.
So it was really amazing
to have the videos being described.
And for me, I felt like I could now “see”
what was happening.
A lot of what
the audio descriptions described
are things
that I normally would have been curious about
and would have been asking somebody
to help me understand.
I had tears in my eyes
knowing that the Governing Body
loves us this much.
I speak Korean.
I speak Japanese.
We made a Japanese section
and a Korean section
like what we would have
at international conventions.
In order to watch
the convention simultaneously, we would count
one, two, three and start playing
our videos at the same time.
This way we were able
to watch and sing together.
It really felt
like an international convention.
Something that I thought I would miss a lot
were the Kingdom melodies.
So then I wondered:
‘How is this going to work at home?
‘There won’t be a crowd,
everyone singing together.
How’s it going to be?’
I thought I would really miss it,
but then my family and I agreed
to sing the Kingdom melodies loudly,
and it worked!
I have never seen my family sing so loudly.
We have three children,
and all five of us
here at home got COVID-19.
And all during the time
that the convention was being shown,
we were all exhibiting symptoms.
It was a really hard time.
Our family was so encouraged
by the convention program this year.
My wife, Marisa, even said that to her,
it was as if the talks the brothers gave
were like hearing advice from a close friend
who was sitting right next to you
like they were
right in the same room with us.
The convention is very positive;
it’s contagious.
It has really touched our hearts.
I truly feel the convention
has touched my heart deeply.
Both my mom and my dad,
who are right now struggling
with very serious illnesses,
were able to join me,
my brother, and my sister-in-law,
and we were together
as a family in our living room.
We got to sing together
and watch the assembly together,
which otherwise
just would not have been possible.
Despite the struggles,
despite the limitations
that we may be facing,
none of that has stopped Jehovah
from reaching out
and even being in our own living rooms
during this convention.
Jehovah transforms something
that Satan is using right now
to take away our joy
into something that gives us joy.
Think about it:
We’re watching the same spiritual program
at the same time with the same speakers,
brothers from the Governing Body.
We never imagined
that we would have this opportunity.
OK, are we all set?
OK, we’re ready whenever you are
if you want to go ahead.
We are delighted that you
could join us for this opening session
of the “Always Rejoice”!
Convention of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
And when everything around you is chaotic,
the one thing you have
is your relationship with Jehovah.
“I will walk in your truth.
Unify my heart to fear your name.”
But we discovered something we had lost
—joy.
No matter what terror,
no matter what trial may come upon us now
or in the future,
we will be able to continue to rejoice
in Jehovah’s acts of salvation.
While 2020 seemed to be anything
but a time for rejoicing,
this year’s convention proved
that no matter
what the circumstance we are in,
Jehovah will continue to feed us,
and we will continue to worship him.
Thanks to Jehovah, we experienced
the truthfulness of Philippians 4:4,
that no matter the trail or difficulty,
we will “always rejoice in the Lord.”